Another part of this whole equation
is something called priming when
it comes to content.
Now, a priming is about
preparing the user for
the offering you
are presenting them with and
it's about, it can be used in a bad way.
So, for example,
if you've ever watched any Darren Brown,
who does like mind tricks, and people.
He's a magician, right?
He can set them up with
certain key things,
that they see certain objects in a room or
key phrases.
And he can influence the decision they
make in quite a manipulative way and
that he's using priming to do that,
the fact that we're quite influenced.
But priming can also be used
in a very positive way,
to make the people feel comfortable in a
situation and make people feel valued and
a product is right for them and
is in line with their way of doing things.
And a lot of this comes down to how you
word things and even the imagery you pick.
So let me give you a couple of
examples to show what I mean.
The first example is around something
called mental models, right?
This is the big promo, and
I'm sure you've come across this before.
Where a client is designing a website or
creating a new website with you and
you're working with them.
And they're creating
the information architecture and
they start using jargon and
phrases that don't make any sense.
And you tell them that they shouldn't
put it in, and they say, but
everybody knows those phrases.
Well, what's happened there
is that their mental model,
their way of seeing and
perceiving the world has kind of left and
is no longer in line with
the mental model of their audience.
And this happens for a couple of reasons.
One is because, they're having
a unique perspective on things.
That we all have different
ways of seeing the world and
structuring information that's
influenced by our situation.
So there's a very famous fable about
an elephant and you get a group of blind
people that are all introduced to
an elephant for the first time.
And one of them starts off by touching
the elephant's leg and it concludes that
the elephant must be a tree from
because it feels like a tree trunk.
Another one touches the elephant tail and
concludes it's a rope
because it feels like a rope.
Another one touches the trunk and thinks
that the elephant is a snake and so on.
So our experiences kind of
alter how we see the world.
So you need to be very aware of how your
audience sees the world, how they think of
things, how they structure things and
use appropriate language.
But to make matters worse, there's
something called the expert dilemma,
which is the more knowledgeable
you become in a subject,
the more your way of seeing the world
differs from your audiences, right?
And that's why people that, you know,
running projects are the worst people
to be writing the content and creating
the navigational structure for it.
Because they're experts in the product,
and so they don't really understand it.
So to give you a real life
example of this, okay?
I'm gonna give you a phrase,
Jill is going to the bank.
What is Jill going to do,
is my question for you.
I'm expecting to see things
like going to withdraw money or
going to pay a bill or
someone always says to rob a bank, right?
But they'll almost all be something
to do with financial transactions
because that's what you think of,
isn't it?
Jill is going to the bank.
But not everybody necessarily
will have that kind of worldview.
If you are a keen angler, or
if you like to do sailing or
things like that, you might be
thinking of the riverbank, right?
Totally different perception
of the same phrase.
So the language we use
is really important.
If we don't use the right language,
we're gonna find ourselves with
quite significant problems.
And we can help make that transition
not by just using clearer language but
also by associating appropriate imagery.
Just by you putting this image alongside
that text, I'm making it much clearer that
I'm referring to the river
bank in that situation.
Course I'd make it even clearer if I
said river bank rather than bank but
you get the idea.
Another way that we really need
to kind of prepare people and
communicate that this is for
them is through the choice
of imagery we use as well.
And I gave that example earlier when
I was talking about the fitness app.
You don't wanna be showing images
of super fit young people if you're
aiming at middle aged mums.
You need to be able to reflect back
the people that you're actually trying to
reach in the interfaces that you're
creating in the imagery that you're
choosing.
So people know that this is for them.
And this is where things like diversity
of imagery becomes really important.
Because otherwise, people conclude,
this isn't for people like me.
The best example I ever did
of that was some usability
testing I was doing on
a leading UK university, right?
I won't say their name but
you know the top universities in the UK,
no doubt and it is one of
the two that you're thinking of.
And basically they wanted to attract more
international students in particular
from Asia.
So what they did is they asked me to run
some usability testing to find out how
we can make the site more accessible and
more appealing to that audience.
And I tested the homepage, knowing full
well that the audience would hate it.
And I showed these Asian
students the homepage and
asked them one question, right?
I asked him, is this university for
people like you?
That was just the only
question I asked and
every single person that I surveyed
said no after seeing the homepage.
And it was obvious why,
cuz the homepage had a carousel on it.
And on the carousel was the latest news.
And the particular latest news
at that time was that the fact
that the university had won some
prestigious award or other.
And it showed a picture of
the Chancellor of the University and
some key academics, all wearing
their finery of academic robes,
all of which were middle aged white men.
There was not an Asian person to be
seen in that particular circumstance.
And so as a result, people naturally
concluded, well, this isn't for me.
And I'm not just talking, this isn't
just a race issue or a gender issue.
This is just showing people like
those you're trying to reach,
fundamental to creating
compelling content.